README.md, before:

<div align="center">

<img src="docs/NarraNexus_logo.png" alt="NarraNexus" width="480" />

<br/>
<br/>

**A framework for building nexuses of agents -- where intelligence emerges from interaction, not isolation.**

[![License: CC BY-NC 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC%204.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/)
[![Python 3.13+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.13+-3776AB?logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/)
[![React 19](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19-61DAFB?logo=react&logoColor=white)](https://react.dev/)
[![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.115+-009688?logo=fastapi&logoColor=white)](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
[![MCP](https://img.shields.io/badge/MCP-Model%20Context%20Protocol-8B5CF6)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)

**English** | [中文](./README_zh.md)

</div>

<br/>

Most agent frameworks focus on making agents *smarter*. NexusMind focuses on making agents *connected*.

An agent in isolation is a tool. An agent with persistent memory, social identity, relationships, and goals becomes a participant in a **nexus** -- a network where intelligence is a collective property, not a model property. NexusMind provides the infrastructure for this: narrative structure that accumulates across conversations, a social graph that tracks entities and relationships, task systems with dependency chains, and modular capabilities that can be composed at runtime.

## Key Features

- **Narrative Structure** -- Conversations are routed into semantic storylines maintained across sessions, retrieved by topic similarity rather than chronological order
- **Hot-Swappable Modules** -- Each capability (chat, social graph, RAG, jobs, skills, memory) is a standalone module with its own DB tables, MCP tools, and lifecycle hooks
- **Social Network** -- Entity graph tracking people, relationships, expertise, and interaction history with semantic search
- **Job Scheduling** -- One-shot, cron, periodic, and continuous tasks with dependency DAGs
- **RAG Knowledge Base** -- Document indexing and semantic retrieval via Gemini File Search
- **Semantic Memory** -- Long-term episodic memory powered by EverMemOS (MongoDB + Elasticsearch + Milvus)
- **Execution Transparency** -- Every pipeline step visible in real time: what the Agent decided, why, and what changed
- **Multi-LLM Support** -- Claude, OpenAI, and Gemini via unified adapter layer

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

**Windows users**: WSL2 is **required**. Install it first in PowerShell (Admin): `wsl --install`, then run all commands below inside the WSL2 terminal.

**macOS users**: Install the following tools before running the script (Linux users: handled automatically by `run.sh`):

| Tool | How to install |
|------|---------------|
| [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) | `/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"` |
| [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) | Download from official site and launch |
| [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v20) | Install via [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) (recommended): `curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.40.1/install.sh \| bash && nvm install 20` |

**API Keys**:

| Dependency | Required | How to get |
|------------|----------|------------|
| **[Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code)** | **Yes** | Install and authenticate Claude Code CLI (`npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`) -- used as the core Agent runtime |
| **OpenAI API Key** | **Yes** | Get from [platform.openai.com](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) -- used for embeddings and as an alternative LLM |
| **Google Gemini API Key** | Optional | Get from [aistudio.google.com](https://aistudio.google.com/apikey) -- enables RAG Knowledge Base (Gemini File Search) |
| **EverMemOS LLM API Key** | Optional | For long-term memory (boundary detection & episode extraction). Default config uses [OpenRouter](https://openrouter.ai/). **If not configured**: memory extraction is disabled; Agent still works but without long-term memory. |
| **EverMemOS Embedding/Rerank API Key** | Optional | For semantic search & reranking over memories. Default config uses [DeepInfra](https://deepinfra.com/). **If not configured**: defaults to local vLLM mode -- requires self-hosted GPU inference to function. |

### Install & Run

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent.git
cd NexusAgent
bash run.sh
```

The script auto-detects your OS (Linux / macOS / Windows WSL2) and handles everything -- Python, Docker, Node.js, MySQL, dependencies, `.env` configuration. Just follow the prompts.

After install, select **Run** to start all services, then open `http://localhost:5173`.

### Configure EverMemOS (Long-term Memory)

EverMemOS provides long-term memory capabilities for the Agent (conversation boundary detection, episode extraction, and semantic retrieval). When you run `bash run.sh` → **Run** for the first time, the script will automatically guide you through an interactive configuration wizard. **All options can be skipped** -- the system will still start, but with different capabilities depending on what you configure:

| What you configure | Result |
|--------------------|--------|
| **Nothing (skip all)** | Defaults to local vLLM mode. The Agent works normally but **memory features are disabled** until you either deploy local vLLM GPU services or fill in cloud API keys later in `.evermemos/.env`. |
| **LLM API Key only** | Memory extraction (boundary detection, episode summarization) is enabled via OpenRouter. Embedding/Rerank still need local vLLM or cloud keys to enable semantic search. |
| **All keys (LLM + Embedding + Rerank)** | Full long-term memory functionality -- cloud-based, no GPU required. **(Recommended for quick start)** |

You can also manually edit `.evermemos/.env` at any time. The key variables are:

```bash
# LLM -- used for boundary detection and episode extraction
LLM_API_KEY=sk-or-v1-your-openrouter-key   # Get from https://openrouter.ai/

# Embedding & Rerank -- used for semantic search over memories
# Option A: Use DeepInfra cloud (recommended, no local GPU needed)
VECTORIZE_PROVIDER=deepinfra
VECTORIZE_API_KEY=your-deepinfra-key        # Get from https://deepinfra.com/
VECTORIZE_BASE_URL=https://api.deepinfra.com/v1/openai
RERANK_PROVIDER=deepinfra
RERANK_API_KEY=your-deepinfra-key
RERANK_BASE_URL=https://api.deepinfra.com/v1/inference

# Option B: Use self-hosted vLLM (requires local GPU)
# VECTORIZE_PROVIDER=vllm
# VECTORIZE_API_KEY=EMPTY
# VECTORIZE_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8000/v1
# RERANK_PROVIDER=vllm
# RERANK_API_KEY=EMPTY
# RERANK_BASE_URL=http://localhost:12000/v1/rerank
```

All other settings (MongoDB, Redis, Elasticsearch, Milvus) use Docker defaults and don't need changes.

> For manual setup and development workflows, see [Development Guide](./docs/DEVELOPMENT.md).

## UI Guide

### Login & Create Agent

1. Open `http://localhost:5173` and enter any **User ID** to log in (e.g., `user_alice`) -- the system identifies users by User ID
2. First-time use requires creating an Agent: click the create button in the sidebar and enter the **Admin Secret Key** (the `ADMIN_SECRET_KEY` value from your `.env` file, default: `nexus-admin-secret`)
3. Once created, your Agent appears in the sidebar -- click to start chatting

### Interface Layout

The main interface uses a three-column layout:

```
┌──────────┬─────────────────────┬──────────────────────┐
│ Sidebar  │    Chat Panel       │   Context Panel      │
│          │                     │                      │
│ Agent    │  Message stream     │  Tabs:               │
│ List     │  (real-time)        │  · Runtime           │
│          │  History            │  · Agent Config      │
│          │  Input              │  · Agent Inbox       │
│          │                     │  · Jobs              │
│          │                     │  · Skills            │
└──────────┴─────────────────────┴──────────────────────┘
```

### Sidebar

- Shows your agent list after login; click to switch agents
- Switching agents auto-loads all data for that agent

### Chat Panel

- Primary interaction with the agent, streamed in real-time via WebSocket
- Execution steps appear in the right-side "Runtime" tab during streaming
- History (last 20 messages) loads automatically on agent switch

### Context Panel

The right panel has multiple tabs showing agent state:

| Tab | Function | Manual refresh needed? |
|-----|----------|:---:|
| **Runtime** | Current pipeline steps + Narrative list | Narratives need 🔄 |
| **Agent Config** | Agent self-awareness (editable) + Social network (searchable) + RAG files | Needs 🔄 |
| **Agent Inbox** | Messages the agent received from other users | Needs 🔄 |
| **Jobs** | List / dependency graph / timeline views, filter by status, cancel jobs | Needs 🔄 |
| **Skills** | Available tools and skills | Needs 🔄 |

> **⚠️ Important: Data in the right panel does not auto-update (except chat messages).** After you ask the agent to modify Awareness, create jobs, or update the social network via chat, click the 🔄 refresh button in the corresponding tab header to see the latest data.

### Typical Workflow

1. **Login** → Select or create an agent
2. **Chat to configure** → Use natural language to set up Awareness (role, goals, key info)
3. **Refresh Agent Config tab** → Click 🔄 to confirm changes took effect
4. **Chat to assign tasks** → Use natural language to create jobs (cron, periodic, ongoing, etc.)
5. **Refresh Jobs tab** → Click 🔄 to see created jobs
6. **Ongoing interaction** → After agent executes tasks, refresh panels to see social network updates, narrative accumulation, etc.

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [Examples](./docs/EXAMPLES.md) | Usage patterns: sales agents, monitoring, RAG, job scheduling |
| [Architecture](./docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) | System architecture, modules, tech stack, project structure |
| [Development Guide](./docs/DEVELOPMENT.md) | Manual setup, configuration, table management, adding modules |

## Star History

<a href="https://star-history.com/#NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent&Date">
 <picture>
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent&type=Date&theme=dark" />
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent&type=Date" />
   <img alt="Star History Chart" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent&type=Date" />
 </picture>
</a>

## Acknowledgments

NexusMind's long-term memory system is built on [EverMemOS](https://github.com/EverMind-AI/EverMemOS), a self-organizing memory operating system for structured long-horizon reasoning. We thank the EverMemOS team for their foundational work.

> Chuanrui Hu, Xingze Gao, Zuyi Zhou, Dannong Xu, Yi Bai, Xintong Li, Hui Zhang, Tong Li, Chong Zhang, Lidong Bing, Yafeng Deng. *EverMemOS: A Self-Organizing Memory Operating System for Structured Long-Horizon Reasoning.* arXiv:2601.02163, 2026. [[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.02163)

## Citation

If you find NexusMind useful, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@software{nexusagent2025,
  title        = {NexusMind: A Framework for Building Nexuses of Agents},
  author       = {NetMind.AI},
  year         = {2026},
  url          = {https://github.com/NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent},
  license      = {CC-BY-NC-4.0}
}
```

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup, commit conventions, and how to add new modules.

## License

[CC BY-NC 4.0](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

[fix] Frontend cleanup, rename to NarraNexus, and misc bug fixes

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

<img src="docs/NarraNexus_logo.png" alt="NarraNexus" width="480" />

<br/>
<br/>

**A framework for building nexuses of agents -- where intelligence emerges from interaction, not isolation.**

[![License: CC BY-NC 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC%204.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/)
[![Python 3.13+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.13+-3776AB?logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/)
[![React 19](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19-61DAFB?logo=react&logoColor=white)](https://react.dev/)
[![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.115+-009688?logo=fastapi&logoColor=white)](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
[![MCP](https://img.shields.io/badge/MCP-Model%20Context%20Protocol-8B5CF6)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)

**English** | [中文](./README_zh.md)

</div>

<br/>

Most agent frameworks focus on making agents *smarter*. NarraNexus focuses on making agents *connected*.

An agent in isolation is a tool. An agent with persistent memory, social identity, relationships, and goals becomes a participant in a **nexus** -- a network where intelligence is a collective property, not a model property. NarraNexus provides the infrastructure for this: narrative structure that accumulates across conversations, a social graph that tracks entities and relationships, task systems with dependency chains, and modular capabilities that can be composed at runtime.

## Key Features

- **Narrative Structure** -- Conversations are routed into semantic storylines maintained across sessions, retrieved by topic similarity rather than chronological order
- **Hot-Swappable Modules** -- Each capability (chat, social graph, RAG, jobs, skills, memory) is a standalone module with its own DB tables, MCP tools, and lifecycle hooks
- **Social Network** -- Entity graph tracking people, relationships, expertise, and interaction history with semantic search
- **Job Scheduling** -- One-shot, cron, periodic, and continuous tasks with dependency DAGs
- **RAG Knowledge Base** -- Document indexing and semantic retrieval via Gemini File Search
- **Semantic Memory** -- Long-term episodic memory powered by EverMemOS (MongoDB + Elasticsearch + Milvus)
- **Execution Transparency** -- Every pipeline step visible in real time: what the Agent decided, why, and what changed
- **Multi-LLM Support** -- Claude, OpenAI, and Gemini via unified adapter layer

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

**Windows users**: WSL2 is **required**. Install it first in PowerShell (Admin): `wsl --install`, then run all commands below inside the WSL2 terminal.

**macOS users**: Install the following tools before running the script (Linux users: handled automatically by `run.sh`):

| Tool | How to install |
|------|---------------|
| [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) | `/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"` |
| [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) | Download from official site and launch |
| [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v20) | Install via [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) (recommended): `curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.40.1/install.sh \| bash && nvm install 20` |

**API Keys**:

| Dependency | Required | How to get |
|------------|----------|------------|
| **[Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code)** | **Yes** | Install and authenticate Claude Code CLI (`npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`) -- used as the core Agent runtime |
| **OpenAI API Key** | **Yes** | Get from [platform.openai.com](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) -- used for embeddings and as an alternative LLM |
| **Google Gemini API Key** | Optional | Get from [aistudio.google.com](https://aistudio.google.com/apikey) -- enables RAG Knowledge Base (Gemini File Search) |
| **EverMemOS LLM API Key** | Optional | For long-term memory (boundary detection & episode extraction). Default config uses [OpenRouter](https://openrouter.ai/). **If not configured**: memory extraction is disabled; Agent still works but without long-term memory. |
| **EverMemOS Embedding/Rerank API Key** | Optional | For semantic search & reranking over memories. Default config uses [DeepInfra](https://deepinfra.com/). **If not configured**: defaults to local vLLM mode -- requires self-hosted GPU inference to function. |

### Install & Run

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent.git
cd NexusAgent
bash run.sh
```

The script auto-detects your OS (Linux / macOS / Windows WSL2) and handles everything -- Python, Docker, Node.js, MySQL, dependencies, `.env` configuration. Just follow the prompts.

After install, select **Run** to start all services, then open `http://localhost:5173`.

### Configure EverMemOS (Long-term Memory)

EverMemOS provides long-term memory capabilities for the Agent (conversation boundary detection, episode extraction, and semantic retrieval). When you run `bash run.sh` → **Run** for the first time, the script will automatically guide you through an interactive configuration wizard. **All options can be skipped** -- the system will still start, but with different capabilities depending on what you configure:

| What you configure | Result |
|--------------------|--------|
| **Nothing (skip all)** | Defaults to local vLLM mode. The Agent works normally but **memory features are disabled** until you either deploy local vLLM GPU services or fill in cloud API keys later in `.evermemos/.env`. |
| **LLM API Key only** | Memory extraction (boundary detection, episode summarization) is enabled via OpenRouter. Embedding/Rerank still need local vLLM or cloud keys to enable semantic search. |
| **All keys (LLM + Embedding + Rerank)** | Full long-term memory functionality -- cloud-based, no GPU required. **(Recommended for quick start)** |

You can also manually edit `.evermemos/.env` at any time. The key variables are:

```bash
# LLM -- used for boundary detection and episode extraction
LLM_API_KEY=sk-or-v1-your-openrouter-key   # Get from https://openrouter.ai/

# Embedding & Rerank -- used for semantic search over memories
# Option A: Use DeepInfra cloud (recommended, no local GPU needed)
VECTORIZE_PROVIDER=deepinfra
VECTORIZE_API_KEY=your-deepinfra-key        # Get from https://deepinfra.com/
VECTORIZE_BASE_URL=https://api.deepinfra.com/v1/openai
RERANK_PROVIDER=deepinfra
RERANK_API_KEY=your-deepinfra-key
RERANK_BASE_URL=https://api.deepinfra.com/v1/inference

# Option B: Use self-hosted vLLM (requires local GPU)
# VECTORIZE_PROVIDER=vllm
# VECTORIZE_API_KEY=EMPTY
# VECTORIZE_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8000/v1
# RERANK_PROVIDER=vllm
# RERANK_API_KEY=EMPTY
# RERANK_BASE_URL=http://localhost:12000/v1/rerank
```

All other settings (MongoDB, Redis, Elasticsearch, Milvus) use Docker defaults and don't need changes.

> For manual setup and development workflows, see [Development Guide](./docs/DEVELOPMENT.md).

## UI Guide

### Login & Create Agent

1. Open `http://localhost:5173` and enter any **User ID** to log in (e.g., `user_alice`) -- the system identifies users by User ID
2. First-time use requires creating an Agent: click the create button in the sidebar and enter the **Admin Secret Key** (the `ADMIN_SECRET_KEY` value from your `.env` file, default: `nexus-admin-secret`)
3. Once created, your Agent appears in the sidebar -- click to start chatting

### Interface Layout

The main interface uses a three-column layout:

```
┌──────────┬─────────────────────┬──────────────────────┐
│ Sidebar  │    Chat Panel       │   Context Panel      │
│          │                     │                      │
│ Agent    │  Message stream     │  Tabs:               │
│ List     │  (real-time)        │  · Runtime           │
│          │  History            │  · Agent Config      │
│          │  Input              │  · Agent Inbox       │
│          │                     │  · Jobs              │
│          │                     │  · Skills            │
└──────────┴─────────────────────┴──────────────────────┘
```

### Sidebar

- Shows your agent list after login; click to switch agents
- Switching agents auto-loads all data for that agent

### Chat Panel

- Primary interaction with the agent, streamed in real-time via WebSocket
- Execution steps appear in the right-side "Runtime" tab during streaming
- History (last 20 messages) loads automatically on agent switch

### Context Panel

The right panel has multiple tabs showing agent state:

| Tab | Function | Manual refresh needed? |
|-----|----------|:---:|
| **Runtime** | Current pipeline steps + Narrative list | Narratives need 🔄 |
| **Agent Config** | Agent self-awareness (editable) + Social network (searchable) + RAG files | Needs 🔄 |
| **Agent Inbox** | Messages the agent received from other users | Needs 🔄 |
| **Jobs** | List / dependency graph / timeline views, filter by status, cancel jobs | Needs 🔄 |
| **Skills** | Available tools and skills | Needs 🔄 |

> **⚠️ Important: Data in the right panel does not auto-update (except chat messages).** After you ask the agent to modify Awareness, create jobs, or update the social network via chat, click the 🔄 refresh button in the corresponding tab header to see the latest data.

### Typical Workflow

1. **Login** → Select or create an agent
2. **Chat to configure** → Use natural language to set up Awareness (role, goals, key info)
3. **Refresh Agent Config tab** → Click 🔄 to confirm changes took effect
4. **Chat to assign tasks** → Use natural language to create jobs (cron, periodic, ongoing, etc.)
5. **Refresh Jobs tab** → Click 🔄 to see created jobs
6. **Ongoing interaction** → After agent executes tasks, refresh panels to see social network updates, narrative accumulation, etc.

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [Examples](./docs/EXAMPLES.md) | Usage patterns: sales agents, monitoring, RAG, job scheduling |
| [Architecture](./docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) | System architecture, modules, tech stack, project structure |
| [Development Guide](./docs/DEVELOPMENT.md) | Manual setup, configuration, table management, adding modules |

## Star History

<a href="https://star-history.com/#NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent&Date">
 <picture>
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent&type=Date&theme=dark" />
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent&type=Date" />
   <img alt="Star History Chart" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent&type=Date" />
 </picture>
</a>

## Acknowledgments

NarraNexus's long-term memory system is built on [EverMemOS](https://github.com/EverMind-AI/EverMemOS), a self-organizing memory operating system for structured long-horizon reasoning. We thank the EverMemOS team for their foundational work.

> Chuanrui Hu, Xingze Gao, Zuyi Zhou, Dannong Xu, Yi Bai, Xintong Li, Hui Zhang, Tong Li, Chong Zhang, Lidong Bing, Yafeng Deng. *EverMemOS: A Self-Organizing Memory Operating System for Structured Long-Horizon Reasoning.* arXiv:2601.02163, 2026. [[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.02163)

## Citation

If you find NarraNexus useful, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@software{narranexus2026,
  title        = {NarraNexus: A Framework for Building Nexuses of Agents},
  author       = {NetMind.AI},
  year         = {2026},
  url          = {https://github.com/NetMindAI-Open/NexusAgent},
  license      = {CC-BY-NC-4.0}
}
```

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup, commit conventions, and how to add new modules.

## License

[CC BY-NC 4.0](./LICENSE)
